README.md, before:

# 🐞 BugBot-Agent  
### A Modular AI Organism with Cyber, Vision, Embedding, and Symbolic Organs

BugBot-Agent is a living, modular AI system designed to dramatize perception, adaptation, anomaly detection, and renewal.  
It is built as a cockpit of interactive panels — each one representing an “organ” in the agent’s body.

This project blends:
- **Cybersecurity fuzzing + defense loops**  
- **Neural spike raster visualization**  
- **Tensor heatmaps**  
- **3D embedding projection**  
- **Symbolic attention experiments**  
- **Robotics arena scaffolding**  
- **Model card dashboards**  
- **Token visualization**  

All organs are swappable, modular, and independently runnable.

---

## 🚀 Features

### **Cyber Arena**
A live cyber‑simulation panel where the agent:
- Generates fuzz patterns  
- Records them  
- Defends against its own anomalies  
- Visualizes internal state  

### **Heatmap Panel**
Renders tensors as heatmaps for:
- Attention maps  
- Activation patterns  
- Symbolic density fields  

### **Spike Raster Panel**
Plots multi‑neuron spike trains for:
- STDP experiments  
- Temporal coding  
- Multi‑layer spiking architectures  

### **Embedding Projector**
Projects embeddings using:
- PCA  
- t‑SNE  
- UMAP  
- 3D scatter visualizations  

### **Fuzz Generator**
Standalone fuzz pattern generator with timestamped logs.

### **Robotics Arena (Scaffold)**
A future panel for:
- Sensor fusion  
- Motor commands  
- Embodied simulation  

### **Token Visualizer**
Displays token‑level activations and transformations.

### **Model Card Dashboard**
A clean panel for model metadata, lineage, and interpretability.

---

## 🧠 Philosophy

BugBot-Agent is built on a simple idea:

> **An agent is a cycle — perception → anomaly → adaptation → renewal.**

Each cockpit panel is an organ in that cycle.

- Heatmaps = perception  
- Raster spikes = temporal encoding  
- Fuzz patterns = anomaly  
- Cyber Arena = adaptation  
- Embedding projector = reflection  
- Robotics = embodiment  
- Model card = memory  

This repo is both a technical system and a symbolic one.

---

## 🛠 Installation

```bash
git clone https://github.com/rjcasi/bugbot-agent.git
cd bugbot-agent
python3 -m venv venv
source venv/bin/activate
pip install -r requirements.txt

# Symbolic Pattern Language v1
A unified symbolic grammar for describing perception, activation, structure, flow, recursion, protection, and evolution inside BugBot‑Agent.

This language defines how the agent thinks, grows, stabilizes, protects itself, and transforms over time.  
It is both **technical** and **symbolic**, bridging ML, cybernetics, physics, and philosophy.

---

## 🧠 Purpose
The Symbolic Pattern Language provides:

- A consistent grammar for agent behavior  
- A shared vocabulary for cockpit panels  
- A way to narrate internal processes  
- A bridge between code, meaning, and structure  
- A recruiter‑friendly conceptual layer  

---

## 🜂 Pattern List (1–34)

### 1. Spark — ignition, emergence  
`SPARK {source} -> {activation}`

### 2. Orbit — cyclical stability  
`ORBIT {center} via {path} @ {period}`

### 3. Bridge — cross-domain mapping  
`BRIDGE {source_domain} -> {target_domain} via {mapping}`

### 4. Pulsefield — distributed rhythmic activation  
`PULSEFIELD {nodes} with {waveform} via {coupling}`

### 5. Fracture — controlled divergence  
`FRACTURE {whole} along {axes} -> {branches}`

### 6. Lattice — structural scaffolding  
`LATTICE {nodes} via {links} -> {topology}`

### 7. Conduit — directed transmission  
`CONDUIT {source} via {pathway} -> {destination}`

### 8. Bloom — generative expansion  
`BLOOM {seed} via {growth_rule} into {field}`

### 9. Refine — iterative sharpening  
`REFINE {input} by {criterion} via {iteration}`

### 10. Shell — protective boundary  
`SHELL {core} with {boundary} :: {policy}`

### 11. Spiral — recursive ascent  
`SPIRAL {origin} via {recursion} toward {ascent}`

### 12. Matrix — multi-dimensional structuring  
`MATRIX {axes} via {mapping} -> {cell}`

### 13. Horizon — limit of perception  
`HORIZON {domain} at {boundary} -> {beyond}`

### 14. Cradle — incubation, nurturing  
`CRADLE {seedling} in {environment} :: {support}`

### 15. Flux — continuous transformation  
`FLUX {state} under {force} -> {adjustment}`

### 16. Anchorfield — global attractor grid  
`ANCHORFIELD {anchors} via {field_rule} over {region}`

### 17. Veil — obscuration, hidden layers  
`VEIL {content} behind {layer} :: {rule}`

### 18. Pulsegate — rhythmic gating  
`PULSEGATE {signal} at {interval} -> {condition}`

### 19. Crest — peak activation  
`CREST {wave} at {peak} :: {expression}`

### 20. Root — deep grounding  
`ROOT {structure} into {substrate} :: {principle}`

---

## 🧩 How BugBot‑Agent Uses This Language

- **Cockpit Panels** use patterns to describe internal state  
- **Organs** use patterns to declare behavior  
- **Logs** use patterns to narrate transformations  
- **Symbolic Physics Engine** uses patterns as primitives  
- **Cyber Defense Arena** uses patterns to describe anomalies  
- **Robotics Arena** uses patterns to describe motion and force  
- **Memory Fabric** uses patterns to encode meaning  

---

## 🧬 Why Recruiters Love This
This language shows:

- Systems thinking  
- Architecture clarity  
- Symbolic reasoning  
- Multi‑domain integration  
- A unique, memorable conceptual layer  
- A living agent with explainable behavior  

It turns BugBot‑Agent into a **story**, not just a repo.

---

## 📦 Version
**Symbolic Pattern Language v1**  
Patterns 1–34  
BugBot‑Agent Core Specification

Commit message:

UI Upgrade: Modern cockpit, organ status indicators, telemetry panel integration

README.md, after:

# 🐞 BugBot-Agent  
### A Modular AI Organism with Cyber, Vision, Embedding, and Symbolic Organs

# 🧠 BugBot-Agent — A Symbolic AI Cockpit

BugBot-Agent is a modular, living AI cockpit designed to dramatize cycles of perception, adaptation, defense, and renewal.  
It integrates cyber panels, embedding spaces, robotics arenas, Fourier surfaces, and a unified physics organ — all orchestrated through FastAPI.

This system is built for clarity, modularity, and recruiter-facing demonstration.

---

## 🚀 Launch Instructions

Clone the repo and start the cockpit:

```bash
cd bugbot-agent
source .venv/bin/activate
python3 launch.py

BugBot-Agent is a living, modular AI system designed to dramatize perception, adaptation, anomaly detection, and renewal.  
It is built as a cockpit of interactive panels — each one representing an “organ” in the agent’s body.

This project blends:
- **Cybersecurity fuzzing + defense loops**  
- **Neural spike raster visualization**  
- **Tensor heatmaps**  
- **3D embedding projection**  
- **Symbolic attention experiments**  
- **Robotics arena scaffolding**  
- **Model card dashboards**  
- **Token visualization**  

All organs are swappable, modular, and independently runnable.

---

## 🚀 Features

### **Cyber Arena**
A live cyber‑simulation panel where the agent:
- Generates fuzz patterns  
- Records them  
- Defends against its own anomalies  
- Visualizes internal state  

### **Heatmap Panel**
Renders tensors as heatmaps for:
- Attention maps  
- Activation patterns  
- Symbolic density fields  

### **Spike Raster Panel**
Plots multi‑neuron spike trains for:
- STDP experiments  
- Temporal coding  
- Multi‑layer spiking architectures  

### **Embedding Projector**
Projects embeddings using:
- PCA  
- t‑SNE  
- UMAP  
- 3D scatter visualizations  

### **Fuzz Generator**
Standalone fuzz pattern generator with timestamped logs.

### **Robotics Arena (Scaffold)**
A future panel for:
- Sensor fusion  
- Motor commands  
- Embodied simulation  

### **Token Visualizer**
Displays token‑level activations and transformations.

### **Model Card Dashboard**
A clean panel for model metadata, lineage, and interpretability.

---

## 🧠 Philosophy

BugBot-Agent is built on a simple idea:

> **An agent is a cycle — perception → anomaly → adaptation → renewal.**

Each cockpit panel is an organ in that cycle.

- Heatmaps = perception  
- Raster spikes = temporal encoding  
- Fuzz patterns = anomaly  
- Cyber Arena = adaptation  
- Embedding projector = reflection  
- Robotics = embodiment  
- Model card = memory  

This repo is both a technical system and a symbolic one.

---

## 🛠 Installation

```bash
git clone https://github.com/rjcasi/bugbot-agent.git
cd bugbot-agent
python3 -m venv venv
source venv/bin/activate
pip install -r requirements.txt

# Symbolic Pattern Language v1
A unified symbolic grammar for describing perception, activation, structure, flow, recursion, protection, and evolution inside BugBot‑Agent.

This language defines how the agent thinks, grows, stabilizes, protects itself, and transforms over time.  
It is both **technical** and **symbolic**, bridging ML, cybernetics, physics, and philosophy.

---

## 🧠 Purpose
The Symbolic Pattern Language provides:

- A consistent grammar for agent behavior  
- A shared vocabulary for cockpit panels  
- A way to narrate internal processes  
- A bridge between code, meaning, and structure  
- A recruiter‑friendly conceptual layer  

---

## 🜂 Pattern List (1–34)

### 1. Spark — ignition, emergence  
`SPARK {source} -> {activation}`

### 2. Orbit — cyclical stability  
`ORBIT {center} via {path} @ {period}`

### 3. Bridge — cross-domain mapping  
`BRIDGE {source_domain} -> {target_domain} via {mapping}`

### 4. Pulsefield — distributed rhythmic activation  
`PULSEFIELD {nodes} with {waveform} via {coupling}`

### 5. Fracture — controlled divergence  
`FRACTURE {whole} along {axes} -> {branches}`

### 6. Lattice — structural scaffolding  
`LATTICE {nodes} via {links} -> {topology}`

### 7. Conduit — directed transmission  
`CONDUIT {source} via {pathway} -> {destination}`

### 8. Bloom — generative expansion  
`BLOOM {seed} via {growth_rule} into {field}`

### 9. Refine — iterative sharpening  
`REFINE {input} by {criterion} via {iteration}`

### 10. Shell — protective boundary  
`SHELL {core} with {boundary} :: {policy}`

### 11. Spiral — recursive ascent  
`SPIRAL {origin} via {recursion} toward {ascent}`

### 12. Matrix — multi-dimensional structuring  
`MATRIX {axes} via {mapping} -> {cell}`

### 13. Horizon — limit of perception  
`HORIZON {domain} at {boundary} -> {beyond}`

### 14. Cradle — incubation, nurturing  
`CRADLE {seedling} in {environment} :: {support}`

### 15. Flux — continuous transformation  
`FLUX {state} under {force} -> {adjustment}`

### 16. Anchorfield — global attractor grid  
`ANCHORFIELD {anchors} via {field_rule} over {region}`

### 17. Veil — obscuration, hidden layers  
`VEIL {content} behind {layer} :: {rule}`

### 18. Pulsegate — rhythmic gating  
`PULSEGATE {signal} at {interval} -> {condition}`

### 19. Crest — peak activation  
`CREST {wave} at {peak} :: {expression}`

### 20. Root — deep grounding  
`ROOT {structure} into {substrate} :: {principle}`

---

## 🧩 How BugBot‑Agent Uses This Language

- **Cockpit Panels** use patterns to describe internal state  
- **Organs** use patterns to declare behavior  
- **Logs** use patterns to narrate transformations  
- **Symbolic Physics Engine** uses patterns as primitives  
- **Cyber Defense Arena** uses patterns to describe anomalies  
- **Robotics Arena** uses patterns to describe motion and force  
- **Memory Fabric** uses patterns to encode meaning  

---

## 🧬 Why Recruiters Love This
This language shows:

- Systems thinking  
- Architecture clarity  
- Symbolic reasoning  
- Multi‑domain integration  
- A unique, memorable conceptual layer  
- A living agent with explainable behavior  

It turns BugBot‑Agent into a **story**, not just a repo.

---

## 📦 Version
**Symbolic Pattern Language v1**  
Patterns 1–34  
BugBot‑Agent Core Specification
